---
title: Mappy Breakpoints, A Breakpoint Mixin that uses Sass Maps
layout: post
slug: mappy-breakpoints
tags:
 - css
 - responsive
newsletter: better-fed
---

I have been using [Breakpoint](http://breakpoint-sass.com/) to handle my media queries for a long time and I have been happy with it. However, during my previous project, I discovered that I needed something more.

Since I was working on rebuilding my starter template for Learning Susy, I went about hacking my own breakpoint mixin that satisfied all my needs. I thought you'd be interested to hear what I came up with :)

<!--more-->

## What Is Breakpoint?

If you haven't heard of Breakpoint, you're really missing out on a superb breakpoint mixin that helps you handle most media queries effortlessly. Let's first explore what Breakpoint has to offer.

Breakpoint provides you with a `breakpoint()` mixin that accepts several arguments. It then translates the information you give into a media query.

Breakpoint will create a `min-width` query if one query is given to it. It creates a `min-width` and `max-width` query if two queries are given to it. It also has the capability to create a `max-width` query if you gave it a `max-width` string and a query.

~~~scss
// Min Width Query
// ---------------
@include breakpoint(600px) {
  // stuff
}

// Translates into
@media (min-width: 600px) {
  // stuff
}

// Min Width And Max Width Query
// -----------------------------
@include breakpoint(600px 900px) {
  // stuff
}

// Translates into
@media (min-width: 600px) and (max-width: 900px) {
  // stuff
}

// Max Width Query
// ---------------
@include breakpoint(max-width 900px) {
  // stuff
}

// Translates into
@media (max-width: 900px) {
  // stuff
}
~~~

I have written extensively about these three types of media queries and [how they can be used to write mobile first css](/blog/how-to-write-mobile-first-css/).

## What's Lacking For Me in Breakpoint

Breakpoint had been perfect for a long time, until I decided to refactor my Sass starter to use Sass Maps to hold my breakpoints.

I wanted three things that were missing from Breakpoint.

1. I wanted the ability to use a map key from a Sass map immediately in my breakpoint mixin
2. I wanted to be able to subtract one pixel from the max-width argument to prevent queries from overlapping.
3. I wanted to write in pixels but output in a relative width (ems or rems).

First, I wanted the ability to use a map key from a Sass map immediately in my breakpoint mixin because I store all my breakpoints in a Sass map named `$breakpoints`.

~~~scss
$breakpoints: (
  'small'     : 320px,
  'med'       : 640px,
  'large'     : 920px,
  'wide'      : 1200px,
  'mega'      : 1400px,
  // ...
  );
~~~

I needed to get the map key within the breakpoint mixin in order to get my values. I had to use a semi-complex query to get a min-width and max-width query.

~~~scss
@include breakpoint(map-get($breakpoints, small) map-get($breakpoints, large)) {
  // stuff
}
~~~

It would have been much cleaner if I had the ability to write map keys instead.

~~~scss
@include breakpoint(small large) {
  // stuff
}
~~~

This factor was a deal breaker and it prompted me to write my own breakpoint mixin.

Second, I wanted to be able to subtract one pixel from the max-width argument to prevent queries from overlapping, which caused me a lot of heartache in a recent project that I had done.

Here's an example.

~~~scss
.query {
  @include breakpoint(800px) {
    // stuff
  }
}

.query.with.more.weight {
  @include breakpoint(max-width 800px) {
    // stuff
  }
}
~~~

There were cases where I wanted styles within `.query` to trigger at 800px.

The actual styles at 800px was however, overwritten by the second selector because it had more specificity. This issue would have been mitigated if my max-width selector stopped at 799px instead of 800px.

Third, I wanted to write in pixels but output in a relative width (rems). Brad Frost spoke about using relative width units in his article on [7 habits of highly effective media queries](http://bradfrost.com/blog/post/7-habits-of-highly-effective-media-queries/#relative).

Since I'm already ditching pixels in favor of rems for all my Sass units, why not bring it up a notch and use rems for media queries as well?

Unfortunately, I needed to calculate these relative widths manually if I was using Breakpoint, which kind of defeats the purpose of using Sass to automate the process.

~~~scss
$breakpoints: (
  'small'     : 20rem, // 320px
  'med'       : 40rem, // 640px
  'large'     : 57.5rem, // 920px
  // ...
  );
~~~

Another plus from this practice as Brad mentioned is that it allows browsers to adjust the design based on the user zoom level, allowing a more accessible experience if the user decides to zoom in.

As you can see, I wanted something super specific that had the ability to simplify a lot of things for me. So I went ahead and hacked my own breakpoint mixin that does all of the above!

## Introducing Mappy Breakpoints

Uhh.. I decided to call it mappy breakpoints since it uses a map for the breakpoint mixin. If you have a better name for it, please throw it up! All suggestions are welcome!

Let's get down to what it does.

Mappy breakpoints does all of the 3 things I mentioned above. It creates `min-width`, `min-width` and `max-width` and `max-width` queries easily, just like how Breakpoint does it.

While doing so, it also converts pixels to rems and subtracts one pixel from the eventual rem value for every `max-width` query.

This breakpoint mixin also integrates with Compass vertical rhythm and uses the `$base-font-size` variable to determine the value used to convert into rems.

~~~scss
$base-font-size: 16px;

$breakpoints: (
  'small'     : 320px,
  'med'       : 640px,
  'large'     : 920px,
  'wide'      : 1200px,
  'mega'      : 1400px,
  // ...
  );

// Min Width Query
// ---------------
@include mappy-bp(small) {
  // stuff
}

// Translates into
@media all and (min-width: 20rem) {
  // stuff
}


// Min Width And Max Width Query
// -----------------------------
@include mappy-bp(small large) {
  // stuff
}

// Translates into
@media all and (min-width: 20rem) and (max-width: 57.4375rem) {
  //stuff
}

// Max Width Query
// ---------------

// You can also use `max` instead of `max-width`
@include mappy-bp(max-width small) {
  // stuff
}

// Translates into
@media all and (max-width: 19.9375rem) {
  // stuff
}
~~~

In addition to using maps, Mappy breakpoints also retains the original feature in Breakpoint where you can turn any value given to it into a query.

~~~scss
@include mappy-bp(small 920px) {
  // stuff
}

// Translates into
@media all and (min-width: 20rem) and (max-width: 57.4375rem) {
  //stuff
}
~~~

Mappy breakpoints also respond to height queries in the same way as width queries. You just have to tell it that you're trying to detect height.

~~~scss
// You could also use the `h` identifier instead of `height`
@include mappy-bp(height 480px large) {
  // stuff
}

// Translates into
@media all and (min-height: 30rem) and (max-height: 57.4375rem) {
  // stuff
}
~~~

Finally, Mappy breakpoints allows you to have any other query pair simply by writing them one after another without commas and parentheses.

~~~scss
@include mappy-bp(orientation portrait) {
  // stuff
}

// Translates into
@media all and (orientation: portrait) {
  // stuff
}
~~~

## There's More!

Mappy breakpoints give you the ability to control two more things.

1) Media type
2) Provide a fallback class for browsers that don't support media queries.

Just add these two as the second and third argument to the `mappy-bp()` mixin.

~~~scss
@include mappy-bp($query, $media-type, $fallback-query) {
  // stuff
}
~~~

## Check Out Mappy Breakpoints

If you work a lot with Sass maps and want some additional map-like functionality to your breakpoints then definitely [check out Mappy Breakpoints](https://github.com/zellwk/mappy-breakpoints).

I'm sure you'll enjoy it as much as I do :)

What do you think of Mappy Breakpoints? I'd love to hear them in the comments!
