---
title: Year end review—2018
layout: post
slug: review-2018
newsletter: better-fed
tags:
 - review
---

We're already at the end of 2018. This has been a weird year for me. It's filled with great success, but I felt like nothing special has happened. 

<!-- more -->

## Results in 2018

I've been measuring results in terms of money for a few years. It's not the best measure, but its important measure for me. I won't be able to survive without money. I won't be able to do my thing—write my blog and create courses—without money.  

Here are the revenue figures from the books and courses I produced before Learn JavaScript. 

- 2015: $31k 
- 2016: $25k
- 2017: $16k

I tried to make a living by writing courses and articles starting from 2015. It's demoralizing to look at the monetary results over the last few years. 

**I almost quit writing.**

Luckily, I saw a light of hope in 2017 when I launched Learn JavaScript. It turned the tables around: 

- 2017: $10k 
- 2018: $96k 

In 2018, I dedicated my entire year to writing full time. I made articles, I made videos, I continued writing Learn JavaScript. It's been a hell of a ride. 

I enjoy teaching, and I'm going to continue teaching. 

I hope 2019 is going to be a solid year too. 

### Subscriber count

The second most important metric in an online business is subscriber count. In January 2018, I have 11,500 subscribers. Today, I have 19,500 subscribers. 

19,000! I never imagined I'll be able to speak to 19,000 people every time I send an email. Thank you for sticking with me. Thank you for paying attention to what I write. Thank you for allowing me to share what I know. 

## My greatest failure

My greatest success is Learn JavaScript. It's an irony that my greatest failure this year is also Learn JavaScript.

I [declared][1] I'm going to finish Learn JavaScript by June 2018. 

I failed. 

It's still not done yet. I'm working on it as we speak. I wrote about why and when it's going to be completed in [another blog post][2], so I'm not going to repeat myself here.

## Other things I did/that happened

1. Created 50 blog posts
2. Created 34 videos
3. Spoke at JSConf Asia
4. Took a memory program
5. Taught a marketing workshop
6. Learned how to heal
7. My grandfather died
8. My baby girl come into this world

I want to talk a little about each thing.

### 50 blog posts

I failed at this goal consistently for three years straight. Imagine my surprise when I finally managed to write 1 blog post a week, consistently, for one year. 

I learned what it takes to keep the consistency. 

It's hard. 

I respect every content creator out there who can keep to 1 article a week. Even more respect for those who can publish something every day. 

I intend to get there. 

Though, I'll start by making sure I can publish 2 pieces of content every week in 2019. 

### 34 videos posts

34 videos is a solid number. I went from someone who doesn't know how to set up a recording, to someone who publishes one video each week.

I'm still inconsistent when it comes to creating videos. It takes a different set of energies and discipline to sit down in front of a camera each time. 

I still find it difficult to record videos. I also find it hard to edit videos I recorded. 

Still lots of learning to be done here. 

### I spoke at JSConf Asia

Continuing with my lucky stroke of speaking at conferences, I had the privilege to speak at JSConf Asia this year. My topic was: "What writing about frontend dev taught me about communicating with the world".

I talked about the three most important lessons I learned:

1. Silence the critic
2. It's about them
3. Be human

**I was scared to talk about this**. It has nothing to do with web development. And I gave this talk at a JavaScript conference. 

Is this topic going to be relevant? Will people boo at me? Will I make a fool out of myself? These thoughts ran through my mind for months before I got on stage.

**I'm glad I gave the talk.** 

It's the rawest talk I've ever given. 

If you're wondering how I felt when I wrote articles every day, watch this [15min][3] talk. It'll show you what I go through as I battle my demons daily. 

And if you're someone suffering from a lack of confidence, from imposter syndrome, from being afraid to make things and share them online. [Watch the talk][4] too. It'll help. 

I hope you watch it. That's my most important message in 2018. 

### I spoke at CSSConf China

CSSConf China was an [eye-opening experience][5]. I learned how people in China do things completely different from people in the western world.

I had such a blast at the conference. I also loved getting to know some good friends there.

To be honest, I'm not sure whether I'll be able to speak at conferences anymore. I've gotten to a point where I feel I have nothing to share—nothing worthy of a technical conference at least. 

I'll be happy to speak if anyone wants to invite me though.   My mailbox is always open. 

### I took a memory program

What if you can remember important things forever? 

I had that statement in my mind as I took a memory program this April. I learned that I can be much smarter than I thought I can be. 

I read faster, I learn quicker, and I retain information much better. With this increased mental capacity, I built a new habit that let me learn for 1.5 hours a day and still produce 40% more content. I wrote about this experiment [here][6].

This is easily one of the most life-changing programs I've been on. It's not life-changing immediately after the program because you only learn to learn faster. But the lessons taught, compounded for life? Now, that's a great investment.

I know many other courses that are great investments as well. But I'm reluctant to talk about them publicly because people just roll their eyes when I share them. If you're interested, feel free to email me. I'll tell you about them.

### Taught a marketing workshop

In August, I taught 15 students how to do marketing in a three-day workshop. 

This was interesting because: 

1. I never taught marketing before
2. I never blogged about it publicly anywhere 
3. I knew this group of students for a while now. I was afraid of screwing up when I taught them 

I learned so much about my own marketing process from this experience. It reaffirmed my views about marketing, and I know I'm on solid ground. 

Marketing isn't sleazy when you do it right. 

To quote Seth Godin, marketing is about making change happen.

I'm still learning how to do marketing properly. Still learning. Still experimenting. Still making things. I think I'm on the right track so far. 

How far can I go? 

Time will time. 

### I learned how to heal

Ha! This is the weirdest thing you'll hear me say all year. 

I took a healing course this year. I took this course because I wanted to heal myself. I wanted to have more energy, and I wanted to recover faster, so I can do more work. 

In this program, I learned how to heal myself, and how to heal other people. I used the techniques I learned to heal my wife after childbirth. She's recovering quickly as a result. I furthered my studies through a series of healing clinics with a few friends. We healed people who came.

**One important thing I learned:**

It's okay to learn things other than programming. Our lives don't just revolve around code. Programming is just one part of our lives. 

I have many other things tI want to learn still. I'm especially interested in things you can't learn from the internet. I might just write more about them in future. 

### My grandfather died

Life's just different after someone dies. I believe my grandfather passed away in peace. And I'm complete with him.

I'm grateful that I was able to complete his journey with him.

### My baby girl came into this world

When a baby comes into your world, your original world gets destroyed. Everything will revolve around the baby for a while. How long? I don't know. It's probably going to be chaotic over here in my household for a while longer.

I'm still trying to understand and process these shifts. I'm interested to see how this will change my attitude towards work and life.

## 2019 

### Theme of the year 

My theme for 2019 is transcendence. I want to surpass my own achievements and self-imposed limits. 

As for what I'm going to do this year, I have for things in mind: 

1. Improving the blog 
2. Learn JavaScript
3. Web Development Guide 
4. More structured mini-courses

### Improving the blog

If you're new here, you'd probably feel overwhelmed by the amount of content I created. It's understandable. I didn't think anyone would be interested to search through the archives to see what I've written before. 

Throughout 2017 and 2018, my focus has been to create new content for people who're already on my email list. I wanted to provide value, and providing value means creating more things. 

But I'm grossly mistaken. 

Content is important. But what's more important is to allow anyone to search through the content I've written. What's the use if there's gold sitting in the archives but nobody discovers it? 

I'm working on improving the blog as we speak. I'm creating tags, search, an RSS feed, amongst other things. I also [open-sourced my blog][7] for if you're curious to see what goes underneath the hood. 

### Learn JavaScript

Along with the blog, Learn JavaScript is going to be a priority. 

I [said][8] I'm realistically going to complete Learn JavaScript by December 2019. Since the theme this year is h, I'm going to push myself to complete it by June 2019. 

Will I succeed? I don't know. Let's try it out.

### Web Development Guide

Many people asked me to give them a roadmap for learning web development. They want to know what to learn first, what to learn next, and how to get hired as a developer in this field. 

I want to write a guide for these people. I have a unique viewpoint to these questions. I believe my answers will help these people out.

I want to give this guide away for free. It'll help the community more than any premium courses out there. This would be my second focus after Learn JavaScript.

If possible, I hope to turn this project into a hardcover book. I've wanted to make one for the longest time ever. 

I'm not sure if any publisher would take it up. We'll see if I get lucky.

### Structured mini-courses

You've seen the Git video series, right?

When I'm done producing the entire Git series, I'm going to put up a landing page. This page lets you go through every Git video in an easily digestible manner.

I'm going to create other series this year as well because I think it'll help many people. Two possible series I thought of are: 

1. Debugging CSS
2. Debugging JavaScript

They're gonna be free too.

## Final words

Three things: 

1. Thanks for reading this. 
2. Thanks for your time. 
3. Thanks for paying attention. 

This blog wouldn't have existed without you. I won't be here today without you. I value your thoughts and opinions. Please feel free to email me if you have questions, or if you'd like to say anything. My ears are always open. 

Thank you for the support.

Here's to a year ahead. 🍻

[1]:	/blog/review-2017/ "Year end review 2017"
[2]:	https://zellwk.com/blog/learn-javascript-completion-date/ "When will Learn JavaScript be completed?"
[3]:	https://youtu.be/XnDGJrvEzJg "What Writing About Frontend Dev Taught Me About Communicating with the world"
[4]:	https://youtu.be/XnDGJrvEzJg "What Writing About Frontend Dev Taught Me About Communicating with the world"
[5]:	https://zellwk.com/blog/css-conf-china/ "My experience at CSS Conf China"
[6]:	https://zellwk.com/blog/becoming-more-productive-while-working-less/ "Becoming more productive while working less"
[7]:	https://github.com/zellwk/zellwk.com "Github repo for https://zellwk.com"
[8]:	https://zellwk.com/blog/learn-javascript-completion-date/ "When will Learn JavaScript be completed?"