---
title: Improving my memory and brainpower over three days
layout: post
slug: improving-memory-and-brainpower
newsletter: better-fed
tags:
 - learning
---

Sherlock (the show) has a villain named Charles Augustus Magnussen. Magnussen blackmails people.

To blackmail someone, he needs information. He stores this information in a place he calls the Appledore vaults. The cool thing is, the Appledore vaults doesn't exist physically. It's all in his brain.

(The Appledore vaults is a Memory Palace in our terminology).

And when Magnussen needs information about anyone, he'd walk into the Appledore vaults (in his mind), which looks like a library of sorts. He'll go down some shelves, pick up a book that contains everything he needs to know about that person.

How cool is that?

<iframe class="youtube" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pjQXFkJJlyI" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

(This video doesn't do the scene justice. Seriously, if you haven't watched Sherlock yet, please go and watch it. You can find this scene in Season 3).

Wouldn't it be awesome if you could remember everything you want to remember?

<!--more-->

<div class="jsCkClone" data-should-not-clone></div>

Guess what I did immediately after watching Sherlock?

I googled "how to improve my memory" 😂.

## My memory journey

I have a decent memory. I can remember most concepts that I care about (like CSS and JavaScript), but I can't remember things like names and structured information.

I want to improve, so I went searched on Google. I read many books, including "Moonwalking with Einstein" by Joshua Foer. (A story about how a journalist went on to become a memory champion).

And I felt the techniques taught by most memory professionals weren't practical. They're for memorizing cards, or for memory championships (which I wasn't interested in).

**I wanted to remember things that were important to me**. Forever, if possible.

Recently, I joined a workshop called "Accelerated Learning Program". It was about learning things quickly, and part of learning things quickly was about having a good memory.

I gave myself a challenge after the program: I tried to read books and remember them. And I was successful at it!

For example, I remembered "Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman". You can name me a chapter from 1 to 40 (there are 40 chapters in this book), and I can tell you:

1. What the chapter title is
2. What it is about
3. What I learned from the chapter

All I have to do is:

1. Walk into my "library"...
2. Find out where Richard Feynman is sitting...
3. Search for the book...
4. And find the chapter I want

This process is exactly the same as Magnussen's library!

Now that is cool! 🤓

I want to share some things I got out of the workshop, and I want to invite you to this workshop if you're interested.

## What the workshop taught

The workshop taught me **how to remember things and read faster**. It gave me a bunch of techniques I can use in my daily life.

**Here's what I can do after the workshop:**

1. Remember a list of 50 items in 10 minutes
2. Remember books (and other sources) and recall everything with the techniques taught
3. Read 8x faster than before

I told you earlier that I remembered "Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman", right? Here an example of what I pulled from my brain:

Chapter 2 is called String Beans. This chapter talks about how Richard tries to invent new ways of doing things. One example was how he cut string beans by sticking the knife into the table. Another example was how he sliced potatoes with an egg slicer. People would yell at Richard and disregard his inventions every time.

I learned that it's possible to invent ingenious solutions... That's the easy part. The hard part is getting these solutions accepted by other people.

Okay, I won't go into any more details about the book the point of this article isn't about the book. It's about the workshop.

** My biggest takeaway** from the workshop isn't the memory skills or the increased reading speed. It **is an increase in my brainpower**.

## Increased brainpower

I have to write articles, make videos, and create course lessons. This takes up a lot of brainpower, and I feel drained after work every day.

I don't have extra mental space to read and learn.

If you know me, you know I need to learn new things, or I get unhappy. So I was unhappy for a while.

After the workshop, I started experimenting with ways to learn in my routine. I couldn't have done this without the increased brainpower. You can read more about this experiment [here][1].

**Here's the best way I can describe the feeling of having increased mental capacity. **

Imagine you're a plant that's trapped in a box. You've grown to a point where you're centimeters away from the ceiling of the box. If you have hands, you'll be able to touch the ceiling with your elbows bent.

There's no room left to grow. You can't grow even if you want to.

Then, the box opened. You're out in the open. You feel the warmth of the morning sun in your face. You realize you can grow father than before. There's an unlimited amount of space to grow.

## Are you interested?

Imagine being able to read anything—a book, a course, an article—and remember the contents clearly in your head.

If you can remember things, you'll learn faster. What can happen if you learn faster?

I'd leave it up to you to imagine.

I have benefited from the Accelerated Learning Program, and I want to invite you to join it. If you're interested, [fill this up]() and I'll send you more info when I have them.


[1]:	/blog/becoming-more-productive-while-working-less/ "Becoming more productive while working less"
